# Air Bnb Price Prediction
 Air Bnb Price Prediction
Recently, an artificial hype in real estate rental market has been observed, especially over the period of past 5 years, whereby the rental of a reasonable accommodation is almost out of budget for a middle class. The Government of Canada has been taking initiatives to increase the availability of rental property in mega cities of Canada e.g. Vancouver and Toronto.
“The City of Vancouver announced on Wednesday that it is moving to ban all Airbnb and short-term rentals in secondary homes in the city. Mayor Gregor Robertson says they expect about 1,000 rental units to get returned to the market.” [1] In continuing efforts to crack down upon short term rental loom through Airbnb, Toronto passes strict Airbnb rules aimed at preserving long-term rental supply [2].
In this project, we are aiming to analyze how this short-term rental service Airbnb is causing a shortage in long term rental vacancies. Underlying assumption is that it has also inflated the hype in rental market. This project is an in-depth exploratory and diagnostic analysis of an interesting dataset that provides insights of the data combined with a data analytics and visualization solution that can be scaled to massive datasets.
The geographical scope of this study is Canada, specifically Vancouver and Toronto. This project aims to analyze percent increase in rental [2] of apartments of different size and vacancy rate, in two mega cities of Canada. We will also get an insight of ownership of house(s) e.g. how many houses or secondary house units are on listing for short term rental.